@c This file is part of the Smap manual.
@c Copyright (C) 2010, 2014 Sergey Poznyakoff
@c See file smap.texi for copying conditions.
@c *******************************************************************
The following table describes the debug categories available in the
@command{smapd} server (@pxref{debugging}).  For each category, the
table gives its symbolic name, ordinal number (in parentheses), and
a short description.

Particular modules may define their own debug categories.

@table @asis
@item smap (0)
Man smap functionality.  Level @samp{1} includes some mild warnings,
like, e.g. @samp{ignoring master privilege settings}.

Level @samp{10} enables detailed protocol traces, which look like:

@example
C: 22:mailertable foobar.net,
S: 19:OK local:foobar.net,
@end example

@item srvman (1)
Server manager, i.e. routines responsible for spawning children
processes, controlling their number and lifetime, etc.

Level @samp{1} gives additional information about allowed connections
and children exit codes.

Level @samp{2} gives insight to the server manager life cycle.

@item module (2)
Module subsystem: shows what modules and with what arguments are
loaded, etc.

@item database (3)
Databases and their functionality.

@item query (4)
Query dispatcher.

@item conf (5)
Configuration file parser.

Level @samp{1} enables warnings about undefined variables.

Level @samp{2} displays each logical line and the result of
expanding and splitting it.

Level @samp{100} enables wordsplitter debugging.  This means a
@emph{lot} of cryptic output useful only to those who have a
good knowledge of how the wordsplitter works.

@end table

